   BHAVANS COLLEGE AUTONOMOUS, ANDHERI WEST
              PRACTICAL JOURNAL
Class: _TYBSCIT_                  Sem:     6              Roll No : TYIT 57

Course Name: UI/UX Design for Entrepreneurs         Course Number:BH.USITS6P1


                                  Practical No. 1
Study the process of creating a graphical interface.

What is GUI design?
GUI design, or graphical user interface design, refers to the graphics of
digital interfaces such as computers and mobile devices. A GUI design
utilizes elements such as text, icons and images, as well as components, to allow
a user to navigate and interact with a GUI.

How does a GUI design work?
A GUI uses graphics to implement changes, and to allow control over a
digital product, website or app. With the graphical aspect of a GUI comes
endless possibilities. A user can click on buttons to take them to a new page,
scroll through a list, type in input fields, toggle settings on and off, and much
more.

The difference between GUI and UI

GUIs and UIs are very similar, and this is due to the fact that a GUI is a subset
of a UI. User interface is the broad term for all interactions between a user and a
machine, and this includes users interacting with a computer via a mouse or
keyboard, or with a mobile via a screen. So, whilst a user interface can interact
with the machine, a graphical user interface cannot. A GUI is purely the
graphics of a UI. However, the term UI design is also used to refer to the look,
feel and — you guessed it — the graphics of digital products. Which is why the
line between GUI design and UI design can become blurred.

GUI design examples.
The home screen of your chosen device uses a graphical user interface design to
allow you to click and open up your browser. The GUI design of your browser
allows you to search, and select a website. From here you can then interact with



                                                               Teacher’s Signature
   BHAVANS COLLEGE AUTONOMOUS, ANDHERI WEST
              PRACTICAL JOURNAL
Class: _TYBSCIT_                 Sem:    6              Roll No : TYIT 57

Course Name: UI/UX Design for Entrepreneurs       Course Number:BH.USITS6P1


the GUI website design of your choice. There is layer upon layer of GUI
designs within one device, and even the apps you download yourself use a GUI.

Examples of GUI operating systems
Windows and MacOS are the two main examples of GUI operating systems.
And they allow a user to interact with not only the desktop GUI design, but to
also access other GUI designs via an internet connection.
How to design a GUI: Step-by-step
   1. Wireframing your GUI design.
The first step is to create basic wireframe screens for your project. You will
need to know how many design screens your project will consist of, and roughly
the user flow between screens. Sketch your GUI design by hand on a piece of
paper, or digitally using a GUI design tool. You don’t need to add loads of detail
here, just placeholder outlines of elements and components will suffice.




   2. Designing a GUI mockup
The next step is to add more detail to your GUI wireframe, and this will turn
your wireframe into a mockup. You will require a GUI design tool at this stage,
and from here you can add color, detailed elements such as images, and small
sections of text.


                                                             Teacher’s Signature
   BHAVANS COLLEGE AUTONOMOUS, ANDHERI WEST
              PRACTICAL JOURNAL
Class: _TYBSCIT_                  Sem:     6              Roll No : TYIT 57

Course Name: UI/UX Design for Entrepreneurs        Course Number:BH.USITS6P1




   3. Create a GUI design prototype
You started with an idea for how your app or website should look. Now, you're
making a rough sketch to show how everything connects and works together.
This step is called "prototyping."
You add in some details like text and other design stuff to make it look nice.
Then, you ask a few people to try it out and see if they can easily use it. This is
to catch any problems and make sure it's user-friendly.
Once it looks good and works well, you hand it over to a developer. They're the
ones who can turn your design into a real, clickable thing that people can use.
They make it come alive!




                                                               Teacher’s Signature
   BHAVANS COLLEGE AUTONOMOUS, ANDHERI WEST
              PRACTICAL JOURNAL
Class: _TYBSCIT_                 Sem:     6              Roll No : TYIT 57

Course Name: UI/UX Design for Entrepreneurs       Course Number:BH.USITS6P1




What are the advantages of GUI design?
1. User-Friendly: GUI designs, though more advanced than CLIs, remain
simple to use. Logical layouts and helpful graphics guide users seamlessly,
making interaction second nature.

2. Aesthetic Appeal: GUIs are visually pleasing, employing bold colors on
websites and recognizable icons. Users appreciate the attractive and easy-to-
identify design elements.

3. Accessibility: GUI designs have significantly improved inclusivity on digital
devices. Users with disabilities find it easier to interact comfortably, marking a
positive shift from less inclusive interfaces in the past.




                                                             Teacher’s Signature
